In this video I'll provide you with an introduction to NSX V.M. where new network virtualization platform
will be specifically focusing on features of NSX version 6 dot to.
So why NSX would do we need NSX for.
Well let's think about what we have right now with a traditional physical network a traditional physical
network presents some challenges like getting new physical network hardware deployed or what if we want
a new violin or a new subnet.
Well think about how long that takes within your organization because it often requires the cooperation
of multiple departments.
Now what if we can have the same level of abstraction with the network that we have with compute and
storage.
What if we could simply roll out new routers new firewalls new villans new virtual switches without
any change being required in the physical network.
That's what we're trying to do with NSX.
We're trying to shift to a software defined network very similar to the way we have our virtual machines
in a virtual datacenter right with a software defined datacenter.
We don't care what types of servers are storage or networks we have.
We just need to give our virtual machines the compute horsepower they need.
We need to give them the space that they need in storage and we need to give my IP connectivity.
And if we can establish and satisfy those needs for a virtual machine we're ready to go.
Right so just like our physical hosts are now simply C.P. and memory capacity.
And it doesn't really matter what type of physical host my VAMC are running on we're going to do the
same with networking.
My physical network is going to become what we call an underlying network and it's going to be simple
transport capacity and that's it.
So what we're going to try to accomplish with NSX is to take a lot of key network functions and virtualize
them.
So for example we're going to have an object called a logical switch.
And the purpose of a logical switch is very similar to the other types of virtual switches that we have
like a these first Daynard switch or Vee's for distributed switch.
This is a new type of virtual switch and it introduces some key new capabilities that are essential
to what we're trying to do with NSX.
Most significant of which is it's going to provide us the land capability.
Now what I mean by that is it's going to allow us to establish layer to Ethan at networks that can actually
traverse a layer 3 physical network I can create anything that segment that actually spans a physical
router.
When I'm using a logical switch and will spend a lot of time in this course examining exactly how that
works and the role that VX land transport plays in that capability.
With FSX We're also going to virtualize routing.
We're going to use something called the distributed logical router that provides routing between IP
networks and the routing is performed to write within the hypervisor right within the ESX eyeholes So
now if two virtual machines are on different networks but they're on the same host their traffic never
needs to leave that host.
In order to get round it
and we'll refer to our distributed logical router as our east west router this is responsible for routing
traffic within the NSX domain.
Now one of the key characteristics of the distributed logical router is the fact that it's a kernel
module.
It's not a virtual machine.
So what I mean by that is the DLR or distributor the logical router is a little piece of software that
gets installed on each and every ESX host.
It's not a VM it's not a virtual appliance.
It's a kernel module that's built right into the ESX host another kernel module that's installed at
the ESX host level is the distributed firewall.
And the distributed firewall gives us micro segmentation which is one of the features that a lot of
people are.
Rephrase
the distributed firewall provides micro segmentation and this is one of the key features that's driving
the adoption of NSX.
So with the distributed firewall we can create firewall rules that are enforced at the virtual Nic level.
If traffic is leaving a VM and is bound for some other virtual machine that's connected to the same
logical switch we can enforce a firewall rule on that traffic.
So it allows us to basically bolt a firewall onto every virtual neck of every virtual machine.
We're also going to have a number of NSX edge services.
The NSX had just kind of like our Swiss Army knife of the NSX.
It gives us features like firewalling load bouncing IPs second layer to an SSL VPN services and many
other services.
All right so the services gateway is actually a virtual appliance that can do many many things.
So we'll take a look at all of the specifics of the different services as we work our way through this
course.
And sex also provides integration with third party solutions and it provides an API that allows us to
tie into a third party cloud management platform as well.
The NSX includes multiple planes right.
The first plane we're going to talk about is the data plane.
And we've got some components that reside within the data plane including alogical switches the distributor
the logical router the distributed firewall and the NSX edge and all of these components have something
in common traffic flows through them right my virtual machine traffic is switch to biological switch
around it using a distributed logical router.
It flows through the distributed firewall and if it is bound for some external network is going to flow
through the NSX edge so this means that if one of these components were to fail it's going to have an
impact on service and those are our data plane components components that are actually responsible for
passing traffic.
And if they fail there is an impact on service
control plane components are different.
Our NSX control plane includes things like the distributed logical router control via And the NSX controller
and these control plane components don't have a direct impact on traffic.
If they fail now that being said if the distributed logical route control VM fails it may eventually
have an impact on traffic because this is what does dynamic routing updates.
If the NSX controller fails our traffic isn't going to stop but our traffic might become less efficient.
So the control plane isn't directly in the data plane but it's also not completely separated from the
data plane.
The way that the management plane is right management plane is purely management.
This is things like the center NSX manager and ASX manager will always have a one to one relationship
with the center.
And these are management tools right.
This is how we get in through the web client and actually make changes.
So if these components fail they have no impact on network traffic whatsoever.
They just impact our ability to manage and assess.
Now as you prepare your environment and roll allow NSX one of the tasks you'll have to accomplish is
a task called Host preparation and it's going to push something called kernel modules down to your ESX
hosts.
Now these curly fries now these kernel modules are made up of groups of VM where infrastructure bundles
or VIPs there are basically little pieces of software that were going to install on the ESX hosts and
they run directly within the hypervisor I think of them as little add on software that runs right in
the ESX host.
They're going to do things like the X LAN distributed logical router distributed firewall.
Right.
And they're pushed down to the individual host by NSX manager so NSX manager is responsible for essentially
preparing my ESX I hosts to run an OS X features.
It's going to install all of these necessary kernel modules directly on the ESX I hosts so that I can
now enable things like the distributed logical router or so that I can create the Exley and backed logical
switches.
So let's take a look at a diagram here and start to walk through some of the network services that are
virtualise.
And here I see two ESX host the host on the left has a VM called VM one the host on the right has a
VM called VM to and those two virtual machines are on the same network now down near the bottom of my
first ESX host I see another virtual machine that's on a completely different network.
When the hosts are interconnected using a physical switch a router and another physical switch.
So these two ESX my hosts are on different networks they're on different Larry.
Three networks and I know that because they're separated by a router.
So here we see one of the most critical capabilities of the logical switch.
I've now created a lair to ether net segment that both VM want and VM to can connect to.
It spans multiple ESX hosts and it even spans the physical router that we see below.
And I could create multiple logical switches.
And so my VM that's on the 172 610 network will connect to a different logical switch.
Now I may need to route traffic between these Vians right.
If VM one wants to communicate with my VM that's on the 172 not 16:10 network VM one is going to send
that traffic towards its default gateway.
Right.
Anything that's connected to logical switch 5 0 0 0 0 1 is going to be in a different network than logical
switch 5000 to.
So if they want to communicate across those networks that traffic is going to be sent to the default
gateway.
And in this case the default gateway that we're going to use is going to be the distributed alogical
router which will handle routing between those logical switches right within the ESX host.
We'll also use the distributed firewall to enforce firewall policies at the virtual neck level so VM
one basically is essentially plugged into a distributed firewall and all of its traffic is analyzed
before it even hits the logical switch.
This gives us these micro segmentation capabilities to control traffic with firewall rules anywhere.
And then finally we have our NSX edge which may be as providing edge firewall services or is providing
a load balancer or a VPN or one of the other many solutions that the NSX can provide.
There's a few important documents that you might want to check out and if you go to the V.M. where NSX
resources page you can find all of these documents like the NSX network virtualization design guide.
There's also a couple documents that are specific to Cisco showing you how to deploy NSX with the Nexus
or Cisco U.S.'s And there was also Brownfield design and deployment guide.
If you already have an existing virtual infrastructure and you want to layer and sex on top of that
the brownfield design and deployment guide is a great way to get started.
So in review a few key concepts from the lesson NSX includes a management control and data point traffic
does not flow through the management or control plane components.
It only flows through the data plane and the data plane includes objects like our logical switches are
distributed logical router and our distributed firewall as well as the NSX Hach and ascites manager
integrates with the center.
This is going to provide us with all of our management functions.
Once we register as a sex manager with the center we'll be able to manage all aspects of NSX using the
Vee's for web client
address ex-manager is also responsible for pushing the kernel modules down to our ESX hosts and enabling
features like VX Slan the distributed firewall and the distributed logical router.
And you can take NSX and Lerat on top of existing hardware and utilize the switches that you have.
Right now it's non-disruptive.